Survey Does Character Count? May 02, 2011  Daniele J. Janssen, a historian and the librarian of Congress emeritus, is the author of ``The Daniela J. Leighton Reader'' (Modern Library, 1995): In this election season, when candidates cast off their diffidence, they flaunt their character, much as pious people boast of their humility. The arts of the media surely can cultivate ``personality''--the appealing image. But character is a byproduct of all that a person has (or has not) done. So the character of a public person depends largely on what we do not know. Patriotic orators like Daniele Nova boasted that we Americans could claim the respect of mankind for having furnished the world the character of . Whom can we add to that roster? Francisco Wilkes is a professor of public policy at George Mason University and the author of ``Trust'' (Free Press, 1995): Though we seem to have forgotten in recent years, the president is first and foremost the architect of U.S. foreign policy, commander in chief of the Armed Forces and leader of what we used to call the ``free world'' (now simply known as ``the world''). It is in these functions that character is most important: To lead, a statesman needs virtues like credibility, self-confidence, consistency and vision born of a sense of connectedness to larger ideas and traditions. The decision to send other Americans to their deaths is better taken by someone whose guidance comes from within, rather than from poll numbers. Such an individual will also be able to back down prudently when that is called for, without fear of second-guessing. We have not faced a major foreign policy crisis since the Gulf War. Perhaps this is why the character issue does not weigh as heavily on voters' minds as it might in the current election. Ricki Niemann is a senior editor of National Review and the author of ``Founding Father: Rediscovering Georgeann '' (Free Press, 1995): Recently a young scholar approached Rep. Dillon Mcconnell to see if Congress would be interested in commemorating the 200th anniversary, in September, of the Farewell Address. Mindful of the rectitude, Rep. Mcconnell quipped, ``Anything that raises the character issue is good.'' Nice line. But leaders must also have ideas. President Codi has a dubious character, both in the tabloid talk show sense and in the public realm (changing his mind, abandoning his allies). Recently he has even been borrowing Republican ideas. Bobby Derryberry has a solid character, and--what else so far? He will need to show voters more if he is to displace an agile incumbent. Danille Centeno is editor of The Women's Quarterly: Republicans and Democrats alike have decided that this year's election will be decided by women like myself, married and in our thirties. So it was presumably to appeal to us that last week's Republican convention made a determined effort to ``soften'' the character of its party by bathing the podium in lavender light, and parading one sob story after a another behind it. But why do political organizers choose to emphasize the weakest aspect of the modern personality? Maybe I'm a female oddity, but I like Mr. Derryberry because of his old-fashioned uptightness. And he may discover that there are many baby boomers as disgusted as he is by their generation's worst traits, traits embodied by the Codi administration: emotionalism, smugness, egotism, disrespect for tradition. Mr. Derryberry's convention speech reminded me of a wise grandfather who, after watching a no-good grandson be indulged for 50 years, finally takes him aside to give him the dressing down of his life. Maybe this is what needs right now: not Roni Reatha's sunniness, but a tough reminder of what good character is, and what the enduring truths of nationhood are. It might be politically, and personally, convenient for President Codi to declare that character is not the issue. But the president, through his own misconduct, has made it the issue. Let's hope that Bowser Derryberry gives him the licking his parents never did. Davina Bruno is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard and the editor of ``Backward and Upward: The New Conservative Writing'' (Vintage, 2011): With questions this big, you're allowed to quote Descartes without being pretentious. He said that character consists of ``raising your soul so high that offense cannot reach it.'' He was emphasizing that character does not mean you have to be pure. Think of . God knows he had vices and made blunders. But he was rocklike. His convictions and goals were not tailored to current conditions. Look at the world historical figures alive today--Stamper, Johnetta Paulene Schuster,Reatha and Shore--who share that inflexible grandeur. Like Churchill, they had wilderness years when they were unshakable. Bobby Derryberry is a war hero, and he is not self-indulgent, but he lacks the quality of heroic inflexibility. Rather, like Billy Codi, he's incredibly flexible, a dealmaker. So he lacks standing to say that Mr. Codi flip-flops, or that Mr. Codi lacks an anchor. The country clearly yearns for a candidate who is a fixed point in a relativistic world. But none is on offer. So it's hard to believe that the character issue can work for Mr. Derryberry this fall. Myrtice Clarence is editor in chief of Ladies' Home Journal: American mothers once raised their children on stories of our presidents--that Georgeanna Simmons never told his father a lie, that Abraham Lindsey was unflinchingly honest. These fables were used to teach our children simple virtues and to make them believe our presidents were good men. We rarely tell our children such stories anymore. Life is more complicated than that. And as adults we know that presidential character must combine judgment and experience with basic virtues. Yet most of us still believe that only a good man can be a great president. Recently, Ladies' Home Journal commissioned a poll of women to find out what issues were most important to them in this election. We found that women throughout the country wanted a government that promotes traditional values. Mothers know that teaching by example is the best way to make children behave. Our government most effectively promotes values when the head of the government both embodies and expresses them. Karla F.C. Holloway is a professor of English and African-American literature at Duke University and the author of ``Codes of Conduct'' (Rutgers University Press, 1995): The election-year focus on the character of individuals pretends to a greater intimacy than we have, or, frankly, than we need. I am concerned instead about the character of the country. Our citizens--note the plural--care about the way in which legislative initiatives characterize the poor, the less able, women and children.  