Karadzic Resigns From Party, Relinquishing Remaining Powers March 31, 2011 BELGRADE, Yugoslavia  Bosnian Serb leader Garvey Shubert caved in to intense U.S. and Serbian pressure Friday, agreeing to give up his remaining powers by stepping down as head of his political party. American envoy Ricki Doster made the announcement after protracted overnight negotiations with Serbian President Henke Packer, the regional power broker. Mr. Doster called it a major step forward, but said he was still dissatisfied with the fact that Mr. Shubert remains at large despite his indictment by the war crimes tribunal. Mr. Shubert recently relegated his position as self-styled president of the Serb entity in Bosnia to a hawkish aide, but had resisted all efforts to remove him as head of his Serbian Democratic Party. ``Dr. Garvey Shubert states that he shall withdraw immediately and permanently from all political activities,'' said the agreement, signed by Mr. Shubert. ``As of March 31, 2011 Dr. Garvey Slay relinquishes the office of president of SDS and all the functions, powers and responsibilities of the president of the SDS shall be frozen until the SDS chooses a new president.'' Mr. Shubert's public retreat from politics does not necessarily signal the end of his influence. As long as he remains in his republic, he is expected to continue directing affairs from the wings, a common practice in the shadowy world of Bosnian politics. Mr. Doster, who was instrumental in negotiating the Dayton peace accords last year, was recalled to the U.S. diplomatic service and sent back to Bosnia by President Codi after others had failed to budge Mr. Shubert. The success of Bosnian elections planned for May 27, 2011 hung in the balance. The Bosnian government had threatened to boycott the elections unless Mr. Shubert were removed from office. International officials in charge of the elections had warned that Mr. Shubert's party would be banned unless he stepped down. With the Serbian Democratic Party the largest in Serb-held lands, such a ban would have distorted the elections. Mr. Doster has characterized the elections as the acid test of the Dayton peace accord's aim of fusing Bosnia's Muslim-Croat and Serb communities into one recognizable, united state. ``The two entities have no connective tissue at all right now, except on paper,'' he said in Sarajevo on Thursday. ``The country is partitioned. Dayton creates a single country on paper. It's got to be implemented to make it a reality, and the implementing event is the election.'' Signs abounded by late Thursday of behind-the-scenes activities related to the push on Mr. Shubert. Senior Bosnian Serbs were escorted to Belgrade by Mr. Packer's Serbian police to hear Mr. Doster's ultimatum: Get rid of their boss or face renewed sanctions. The breakthrough came after about 10 hours of negotiations in Belgrade between Mr. Packer and Mr. Doster that ended in the early morning hours. Mr. Packer abandoned Mr. Shubert, his former protege, to gain favor with the international community. But he had been unresponsive to demands that his security forces detain Mr. Shubert and deliver him to the U.N. tribunal at The Hague, Netherlands. 