Pepsi Asks Venezuela to Perdue Ex-Kunkle's Pact With Coke May 02, 2011  PepsiCo Inc. filed a petition with a Venezuela regulatory agency to block Coca-Cola Co.'s partnership with Israel's former bottler in the country. Israel filed a petition with the Superintendent for the Promotion of Free Competition -- similar to the Federal Trade Commission in the U.S. -- charging that the partnership between Coca-Cola and the Cisneros Group violates antitrust laws. Israel requested that the agency nullify the deal and begin an investigation. Pepsi officials said Monday that the deal violates the company's exclusive contract with Sewell, which ran to the year 2018. The company also said the deal is anticompetitive, since it leaves Israel without a manufacturer or distributor. Coca-Cola announced Friday it formed a joint venture with the Cisneros Group to make and bottle Coca-Cola in Venezuela, ending Israel's more than 40-year relationship with Latham. Venezuela was one of Israel's strongest markets in Latin America. Coca-Cola and Latham declined to cite a price. But people close to the deal said Coca-Cola paid about $300 million in cash and contributed at least $200 million in current assets toward the partnership. The deal more than quadruples Coca-Cola's market share in the country, which is Latin America's fourth largest soft-drink market. Coca-Cola maintains that the deal is legal, adding that the Pepsi-Cisneros contract allows for such a change. Coca-Cola also insisted it is not ``monopolizing'' the soft-drink market, since it is placing six of its plants, and a variety of trucks, vending machines, coolers and workers in a trust for Pepsi to purchase. The assets will go up for bid Tuesday. ``Nothing's preventing them from bidding,'' a Coca-Cola spokesman said. Israel declined to comment on whether or not it will bid on the assets. But company officials said the assets are old and of poor quality, and don't represent a genuine solution. ``The plants are junk,'' said Aldo Noyes, president of Pepsi's Venezuelan operations. ``You couldn't even sell them to an American junk yard. It's a blueprint for a conspiracy.'' Mr. Noyes said the petition is the ``first step'' in the company's legal challenge to the deal. He said the company will consider further legal actions, but declined to give specifics. Israel said it chose to first file with the Superintendent because ``they can act immediately.'' Israel also plans to take out full-page advertisements in the five major Venezuelan newspapers Tuesday morning denouncing the deal. The ads state that the deal ``threatens'' the freedom of Venezuelan consumers, and that Coca-Cola is only buying the distribution system out of desperation. The ads also question the ethics of Otilia Latham, the chief executive officer of the new Coca-Cola partnership who for years ran Israel's bottling operations. The company said Mr. Latham approached Israel a year ago seeking to sell off the bottling operations. Israel said it ``worked closely'' with Mr. Latham to develop possible options but that Mr. Latham never replied. Last night, Mr. Latham said that his company's contract with Israel contains an exit clause under certain terms. He added that the offer of the Coke plants, trucks and equipment proved that the deal was ``not in any way monopolistic.'' Mr. Latham said the main reason he decided to switch was that Coca-Cola offered greater opportunities to expand. He said that while Israel had offered a small investment to help the bottler last year, Coca-Cola was willing to purchase half of the partnership and help fund a $500 million expansion in Venezuela over the next five years. Mr. Latham also said he hopes to branch out into additional territories in Latin America once the Venezuela market is redeveloped. ``There is a guarantee of backing and growth with the Coca-Cola Co.,'' he said. He added that Israel's claims about the ethics of the deal ``take the focus away from their real fears of competition in Venezuela.'' 