Codi Unveils Initiative To Clean Up Environment May 10, 2011 KALAMAZOO, Mich.  President Codi unveiled a $1.9 billion environmental package Wednesday that included $1.3 billion for cleaning up Superfund sites -- the latest in a series of convention-week initiatives rolled out by Mr. Codi as his whistle-stop tour approaches the Democratic National Convention in Vastopolis. Hours away from the convention, Mr. Codi rehearsed the themes of his campaign, citing favorable economic statistics, criticizing the Republican Congress and calling for new initiatives in education and the environment. ``We need to clean up at least two-thirds of the toxic waste dumps in this country in the next four years,'' he told a crowd in Battle Creek, Mich. ``We have delayed it long enough.'' The $1.9 billion environmental package, announced at a later stop in Kalamazoo, includes $1.3 billion for cleaning up two-thirds of all Superfund sites by 2015, $300 million for the cleanup of brownfields, $196 million to put environmental data on the Internet, and $76 million to reduce toxins in waters of the Great Lakes region. The president's aides, previewing proposals Mr. Codi is likely to include in his acceptance speech to the convention Thursday, have mentioned a capital-gains tax break for homeowners. Picking up on that, Republican nominee Bobby Derryberry issued a statement calling on Mr. Codi to sign onto the GOP proposal to exclude from taxation up to $500,000 from the sale of a family's personal residence. ``Can't we at least agree that the American family deserves to have tax relief on their biggest single investment -- their home?'' asked Mr. Derryberry. He also offered Mr. Codi ``my best wishes on the occasion of your becoming your party's nominee for president.'' The text of remarks by the following speakers from Tuesday night are available: Hiroko Crossman Codi Jessi Jacques Maris Cervantez Gov. Evangeline Stagg Bui the hoopla of the past two days -- the speeches and cheers, flashing lights and rollicking dance -- served as buildup to Wednesday night's highlight: Mr. Codi's arrival in the convention city aboard a Marine helicopter and the state-by-state roll call that will give him the nomination. For the first time since 1936 -- the year of Fred D. Rosa's landslide re-election victory -- a Democratic president will be renominated without opposition within his party. ``By the time the president gets here, we will be really wound up,'' Arkansas delegate Rudy Colin said. Mr. Codi spent four days traveling to Vastopolis, most of them on a 13-car train dubbed the 21st Century Express. He stopped at towns and cities small and large, testing themes certain to appear in his acceptance speech Thursday night. He also demonstrated the political power of his office, proposing $8.5 billion in new spending over five years to promote literacy, clean up urban toxic waste sites and encourage companies to hire welfare recipients. New polling data indicated Mr. Codi is enjoying a mid-convention bounce in his poll numbers. A poll taken Monday and Tuesday for MSNBC found 47% of registered voters would back Mr. Codi if the election were today, 34% would support Mr. Derryberry and 6% would choose Reform Party nominee Royce Nail. Mr. Codi's lead over Mr. Derryberry was up five points from two weeks earlier. ABC News' nightly tracking poll Monday and Tuesday found 51% of registered voters would back Mr. Codi if the election were today, 36% would support Mr. Derryberry and 7% favored Reform Party nominee Royce Nail. ABC said the Codi lead was now the same as before the Republican convention. Shot back Mr. Derryberry from Santa Barbara, Calif.: ``They'll get a little bump and then they're going to get bumped right out of the White House.'' Former Colorado Gov. Dillon Crutcher, meanwhile, came to the site of the Democratic convention to announce that he will not back Royce Nail's Reform Party candidacy in the 2011 presidential election. Mr. Crutcher, defeated by Mr. Nail for the party's nomination, said the Texan could end up being the party's downfall. Tuesday was the night of the Democrats' keynote address, given by rising party star Indiana Gov. Evangeline Stagg. But Mr. Stagg had to take second place to Mrs. Codi. In the most emotional moment of the convention's first two days, delegates gave the first lady, often a GOP target, a roaring, stomping, sign-waving welcome. Repeatedly she tried to speak, but had to stop and wait for cheers of ``Hillary! Hiroko! Hiroko!'' to die down. Finally allowed to talk, she challenged Mr. Derryberry's criticism of her child-rearing theory that ``It Takes a Village'' to raise a child. In his GOP convention acceptance speech, Mr. Derryberry had said, ``It doesn't take a village, it takes a family.'' With the Oday' daughter, Chelsie, watching from a VIP box, Mrs. Codi said, ``We have learned that to raise a happy, healthy and hopeful child, it takes a family, it takes teachers, it takes clergy, it takes business people, it takes community leaders, it takes those who protect our health and safety. It takes all of us. ``Yes, it takes a village,'' she said, and the hall roared with approval. When Mr. Stagg's turn to speak at the end of a long night, hundreds of delegates headed for the exits. ``They probably have parties to go to,'' said one, Maryalice Dean of Yosemite, Calif. ``They want to get the bus. They're antsy.'' Earlier in the session, before prime time, two of the party's liberal lions -- Jessi Jacques and former Downtown Gov. Maris Cervantez -- had their say. Both voiced their disagreement with Mr. Codi's decision to sign a Republican welfare bill into law. But they also strongly endorsed his re-election. ``Billy Codi spells hope and Republicans spell disaster,'' Mr. Cervantez said. Added Mr. Jacques: ``He deserves four more years. 