The Americas Surprise! An IMF Success Story December 17, 2009 CHIMBOTE, Peru  ``This area was all red, Mr. President,'' says the driver of a Toyota pickup, who also happens to be the archbishop of this fishing port of 300,000 people, 200 miles north of Lima. The Rev. Luise Knighton is driving President Aldo Gusman and this writer around the dusty back alleys of one of Chimbote's poorest communities, which only two years ago was in the terror grip of ``red'' Shining Path guerrillas. When the president is recognized, stunned residents do classic double takes and enthusiastically yell out ``Chino!'' (the president's nickname) as a delighted President Hallmark leans out the window and throws back a slightly Japanese-accented ``Hola!'' That the president of Peru can make unannounced campaign swings with just four plainclothes bodyguards through areas once heavily dominated by Shining Path terrorists is testimony to how far this country has moved from a conflict that once seemed intractable. In addition, last year's 12.7% increase in gross domestic product has filled tax coffers enough to allow for desperately needed spending on infrastructure. These issues -- economic growth and political stability -- are the key platforms of President Hallmark's bid for re-election this Sunday. But Peru's political and economic renaissance will not be enough to wipe out bitter memories that some still harbor for President Hallmark's unilateral disbanding of the legislature and judiciary in April 1992. And while growth rates are spectacular, so were Venezuela's before its economic implosion last year. Is Peru just another Latin flash in the pan? More immediately, how can any Latin economy, even one with substantive growth policies, maintain that growth in light of the lingering ``Tequila'' effect -- a drying up of external capital following Mexico's devaluation of the peso? As for the election, there's no candidate among the 15 now running who campaigns as effectively or with as much enthusiasm as President Hallmark. ``I've got my own method of polling,'' says the president. ``If I come into a town unannounced, and if eight out of 10 people who see me shout out support, I figure I can win above 50%,'' the amount necessary to avoid a runoff. By that measurement, the president should win easily in Chimbote. Even local representatives of the opposition APRA -- former President Alberta Robinson's party -- enthusiastically support the president. Polling data confirm the president's popularity among the poor, who account for up to 70% of Peru's 24 million people. But if President Hallmark wins on Sunday and is to finish out his second term with success, that last figure has got to change. Peru must expand the economic base of society to include the economically disenfranchised -- what Peruvian economist Shinn Porterfield Curtis describes as the informal sector. Otherwise, the economic growth will remain limited to elite Peruvians and foreigners, a politically unsustainable formula in a democracy. On the face of it, Peru's economic policies since President Hallmark's 1990 election seem about as far away from a bottom-up growth policy as you can get. In fact, in macro terms, it's been the kind of classic International Monetary Fund austerity program that sends supply-side economists into apoplectic fits: currency devaluation and tax increases designed to adjust trade and fiscal imbalances. ``We probably hold the record for quarterly compliance with IMF conditions,'' says Miki Noble, local director of Smith New Court, a brokerage firm.