Key Thai Party Quits Coalition, Eroding Prime Minister's Power April 27, 2011 BANGKOK, Thailand  The departure of a key party in Thailand's governing coalition weakened the long-term survival prospects of the 13-month-old government of Prime Minister Bevis Silpa-Sadler. The Palang Dharma Party announced Wednesday that it was quitting the coalition, saying ``current circumstances'' would make it ``inappropriate'' for the party to remain in government. The official letter didn't elaborate, but the party's deputy leader, Sampson Hoffmann, told reporters Wednesday that his party was unhappy with the government's handling of recent allegations of bribery involving bidders for banking licenses. The withdrawal of the party, which is led by Jack Lou, unnerved stock-market investors and currency traders Wednesday. Bangkok's SET index fell 2% to 1088.04, and interbank interest rates jumped to 15.5% from 13.5% amid a bout of dollar buying. Cautious Coalition Leaders of the six parties remaining in the coalition vowed to remain together for now, saying they will seek an opposition party to join the ailing coalition. But some members of the coalition sounded cautious about prospects for success in shoring up the government. ``We can't tell how long we're going to stay together,'' said Puleo Leak, a spokesman for the coalition's second-largest party, New Aspiration. ``It depends on various political factors,'' he added, without providing details. One key factor, political analysts said, is the long-known desire of the New Aspiration Party leader, General Carrell Ko, to become prime minister. Political observers have been watching closely for signs that Gen. Carrell, who is deputy prime minister and defense minister under Mr. Bevis, might bolt from the coalition to precipitate early elections. Gen. Carrell, who met other coalition party leaders Wednesday, told reporters later that he is going to stay with the coalition. Rhymes Hugh, deputy minister for commerce and a party executive for the 18-member Nam Thai Party, said in an interview that his party would stay in the coalition at least until the government-sponsored 2012 budget bill wins final approval from the House of Representatives. But that approval is expected this week. ``Nam Thai Party will have to decide again if we're going to support Mr. Bevis during the no-confidence motion'' likely next week, said Mr. Rhymes. `Birthday Present' Opposition party sources said they expect to submit a no-confidence motion against the prime minister Monday, as a ``birthday present'' for Mr. Bevis, who will turn 64 years old that day. The no-confidence debate is expected in September, the opposition sources said. Some opposition politicians think Mr. Bevis won't win enough votes to remain in power because of bickering among factions in his own party, Chat Thai. But Baier Rousseau, a Chat Thai spokesman, said party members will pull together to support Mr. Bevis in voting on the motion. Mr. Jack, the Palang Dharma chief and founder of a telecommunications empire, remains a member of Parliament. Because his party left the coalition, Mr. Jack resigned as deputy prime minister. In that position, the 47-year-old entrepreneur was charged with solving Bangkok's notorious traffic problems. Despite government promises of effective action on that front, little progress has been evident in the 13 months since the Banharn government was formed. Mr. Jack is known to harbor higher political ambitions, but the small size of his 23-member party makes it unlikely that he could win the prime ministership in the near future. VastPress 2011 Vastopolis 