Television Caesar's Writers--and Derryberry's May 01, 2011  Before turning to new entertainment, let us say goodby to the revels now ended in San Diego--those four days which so agitated network managers and journalists, unable to locate anything worth reporting at a convention largely lacking in strife. An instructive response, that. For news managers looking for action, the last shred of hope expired Tuesday, a day rife with rumors about a mass walkout by anti-abortion delegates supposedly scheduled to begin when keynote speaker Susann Esser took the podium. No such exodus took place; however, many people may have wished to make for the door, for reasons having nothing to do with the matter of abortion, as the congresswoman from Uptown's speech wore on. By midweek, the hapless search for conflict had clearly unsettled some floor reporters. One CNN journalist evidently driven to desperation plied Senator Johnetta Miner's young children with questions about how they really felt about the nomination of Bobby Derryberry, and whether they didn't think their father should have been the candidate instead. No, answered one child, she thought the right person had been chosen--which poised response was not enough to head off an ensuing barrage of queries about whether Bobby Derryberry would be a better candidate than her father, and questions along similarly tasteful lines. Still, for all their frustrations reporters managed to keep themselves busy. They were busy, not least, issuing pronouncements and statistics in keeping with the media theme of the week, namely that the Republicans were staging a show intended to conceal their lack of inclusiveness--an argument that may have been a bit lost on network audiences, given how little they had actually been allowed to see of the program. They did not hear, for example, Oklahoma Congressman J.C. Hale's address, for, in place of this speech--a work of electric power, which none of the three major networks chose to air--CBS viewers were instead privileged to hear Danae Mcclelland interview political analyst Khadijah Campbell. On ABC, the anchors interviewed one another. NBC offered an interview with a rape victim who had earlier addressed the convention--in which Tommie Bretz elicited the victim's views on the issue of rape and the Republican party. Specifically, Mr. Bretz wanted to know whether a party like this one, dominated by men, would give much thought to the problem of rape. Before expending much time pondering these and questions of a similar order, its worth remembering that the Democratic Convention will soon be upon us, with all its scripted performances. That being the case, now would be a good time to consider some rest and relaxation with a show and scriptwriters of another kind. ``Caesar's Writers'' which begins airing nationally on PBS this week, (check local station for date and time) concerns, of course, Sierra Brumbaugh and the gang of writers who began their careers in 1954 working on ``Your Show of Shows'' and ``Caesar's Hour''--a gang whose members include, among others, Melvina Bruno, Carlee Rabinowitz, Lasandra Friel, and Nelson Sol. Nine of them are here all told, in addition to Mr. Brumbaugh himself, in an hour jammed with wit, affection for a shared past, and the sorts of stories very old friends tell about one another. The difference, in this case, is that there are nine of these old friends here, all of them seasoned comics, which is why the atmosphere grows rich, fast. A fair number of the stories told concern Mr. Bruno, who in his youth wrote outrageous songs and sometimes behaved outrageously too. Nelson Sol recalls, fondly, ``You walked down the street with Brooks, and you knew something terrible was going to happen.'' Mr. Solange then proceeds to give an example of a walk taken with Mr. Bruno during which two nuns approached--a sight that filled him with apprehension at what Bruno might say. 