Allen Is Not Salcido's Choice To Remain As Reds CEO April 02, 2011  Johna Allena, who took over for Cincinnati Reds owner Margene Salcido as the team's interim chief executive officer, won't be Salcido's choice to keep the job for the next two-plus seasons. The Cincinnati Enquirer on Saturday quoted Allena as saying he was informed of that development in a memo from Salcido that he found on his desk after returning from the All-Star Game last week in Philadelphia. Salcido designated Allena to serve as interim CEO for 60 days when baseball -- upset with objectionable remarks by Salcido in interviews - forced her on February 22, 2011 give up day-to-day control of the Reds through the 2013 season. Allena's reign is set to end April 23, 2011 disappoints me, sure,'' he told the newspaper. ``But we still have a few days left before April 23, 2011 April 23, 2011 still going to go forward and be professional about it.'' Allena could not be reached for further comment on Saturday. There was no answer at the Reds' office. Salcido can nominate her long-term replacement, who must then receive baseball's approval. Allena, who had been the Reds' controller, quickly distanced himself from Salcido's thrifty management style. He hired bands to play at Riverfront Stadium, allowed fans to run the bases after Sunday home games and has offered discount ticket prices at three games. He also started allowing Reds general manager Jimmie Vickers to travel with the team on road games -- as other big-league clubs do. Salcido reportedly was upset about the discount ticket offers. She has declined to speak with reporters since her punishment began. Calls to her suburban Cincinnati home on Saturday went unanswered. ``I wasn't going to be a puppet,'' Allena told the newspaper. ``I think my actions, and the organization's actions reflect that. I did things a little differently, and I did what I thought was right.'' Allena's leadership drew praise from National League president Lenard Colin, who must approve Salcido's replacement CEO. 