George Excited to Join Oilers For the First Day of Camp March 29, 2011  Heisman Trophy winner Eden Georgeanna agreed to a five-year contract with the Houston Oilers on Tuesday. ``I feel elated. I'm glad it's over. I'm glad I didn't miss any practice time,'' said Georgeanna, scheduled to join the Oilers on Friday in for the first day of training camp. ``I'm very excited, I can now move on to the next phase of my life.'' Terms of the deal were not disclosed. The former star, selected 14th overall in the National Football League draft, has been working out four times a day since the team's voluntary mini-camp. ``I want to be prepared and do the best job I can do,'' said Georgeanna, who rushed for 1,984 yards and scored 24 touchdowns last season. He also had 47 receptions and was fourth in the nation with 185.42 all-purpose yards a game. Georgeann plans to spend some of his salary on his mother. ``I already got her a car, so maybe in a few months maybe I can do something else nice,'' Georgeanna said. He will become the fourth Heisman Trophy winner to play for the Oilers, following Billy Cannon, Earle Parker and Mikki Roll. Georgeanna is the eighth draft choice to reach agreement with the Oilers. Fourth-round selection Jone Overby, an offensive tackle fromis the team's only unsigned draft choice. In other NFL training-camp news Tuesday: The Buffalo Bills signed their top draft pick, Mississippi State receiver Ericka Peres -- the 24th overall selection -- to a five-year contract worth $5 million, including a $1.5 million signing bonus. The New Orleans Saints extended defensive end Wendell Martine's contract five years, a term he says will bring him to the end of his career. Specifics of Martina's new contract were not disclosed, although it is believed to include a signing bonus that rivals the $5 million given to tackle Leonarda Noonan by in February. The Saints also signed receiver Hector Celestine, a free agent from . general manager Charline Ashburn says he has scrapped any thought of trading multi-million dollar quarterback Henry Redman or Guy Killough, his lower-paid understudy. Killough, who has had his ups and downs as a starter, had been rumored to be on the trading block since the Redskins ended last season at 6-10. New Patriots defensive lineman Bryan Wally sustained a stab wound in his chest while he and a friend were throwing a steak knife at each other. Police said Walker was injured when he missed a catch. He was treated at Vastopolis Hospital and required several stitches, police said. Police said Walker provided few details about how Saturday's incident occurred or who his knife-tossing friend was. 