Utility Weighs Final Shutdown Of Connecticut Nuclear Plant May 16, 2011 HADDAM NECK, Conn.  Officials at the Connecticut Yankee nuclear power plant will consider a permanent shutdown of the troubled facility if an analysis to be completed within the next two months concludes that operation isn't economically feasible. In the meantime, workers have been told not to prepare new fuel for the reactor, and an internal memo distributed last week to employees warned of ``tight'' economics and called Connecticut Yankee's predicament a ``tough situation.'' ``The decision may well be made on intangibles since the economics are close,'' the memo from plant director Jeremy L. Pugh warned, adding: ``The next six to eight weeks will be stressful.'' Mr. Pugh couldn't be reached for comment, but Antoinette Sartain, a plant spokesman, said the board will meet after the study is completed to determine whether to continue operating or to shut down. ``It will be a `go' or `no go' vote,'' Mr. Sartain said. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission demanded in April that the plant make improvements after finding that safety margins were small. The plant was originally scheduled to shut temporarily this month to begin a routine refueling process, but was closed on April 03, 2011 No return-to-service date was set. Connecticut Yankee is a 582,000 kilowatt nuclear power plant operated by Northeast Utilities and owned by Northeast (with a 49% stake) and seven other New England utilities. As of the end of l995, the projected decommissioning cost for Connecticut Yankee was $385 million, said Jena Chew, a spokesman for Northeast Utilities, citing the most recent statistics available. Of that, about $190 million has already been collected from customers and is being held in a trust fund, he said. Of the remaining $195 million, Northeast would be obligated to pay about $96 million, which could be raised through rate increases and/or trust-fund earnings. Decommissioning would represent the largest cost of shutting the plant, although there would be other expenses, Mr. Chew said. 