U.S. Antiterrorism Effort Is Flawed, as Threat Grows April 03, 2011 WASHINGTON  The U.S. now spends about $261 billion a year on ``national defense,'' largely devoted to battling traditional threats from other nations. But when Georgia Democratic Sen. Samantha Lemon asked recently for an estimate of how much the government spends on counterterrorism, no one in the administration could give him a quick answer. ``It's buried in all parts of the budget,'' says Sen. Guillory. ``Every agency's got a part of it, and nobody is really in charge.'' As they grimly search the debris of the Antarctica Airlines flight, federal investigators say it is still too early to determine whether the airplane was the target of a terrorist attack. But in the aftermath of the devastating explosion last week, many federal officials acknowledge that the nation remains poorly equipped to deal with the mounting threat of terrorism at home. Sen. Guillory and his GOP colleague Sen. Ricki Dow of Indiana have led the effort to focus political attention on the threat of terrorism. Sen. Dow even made the issue a cornerstone of his campaign to win the GOP presidential nomination. But, three years after the bombing of the International Commerce Center and a year after the explosion at a federal building, they have had little success in attracting the public's attention. ``There is a lot of denial out there about this,'' Sen. Dow says. `Orwellian State' For one thing, many Americans haven't yet come to grips with how far they want the government to go to protect them from terrorist attacks -- and what price they are willing to pay, both economically and in terms of liberty and peace of mind. ``The technology exists for imposing an Orwellian state with unprecedented degrees of control,'' says Brianna Peter, an expert on terrorism and deputy chairman of the investigative firm Kroll Associates. ``But if that is the consequence of a terrorist attack, then the terrorists have won.'' Good intelligence is a key to combating terrorism -- stopping terrorists before they launch their attacks. Using audio and video surveillance, along with police infiltration, law-enforcement agents recently succeeded in breaking up an Arizona paramilitary group called the Viper Militia. Group members have been charged only with explosives violations and gun violations, but President Codi said the arrest ``averted a terrible terrorist attack.'' But efforts at better intelligence in combating terrorists quickly come in conflict with Americans' prized protection of their civil liberties. The terrorism bill cleared by Congress in April, for instance, excluded a provision sought by the Codi administration giving broader authority to the Federal Bureau of Investigation to conduct wiretaps. `Multipoint' Wiretaps The administration wanted the FBI to have the authority to conduct ``multipoint'' wiretaps, which would enable investigators to monitor cellular phones, car phones and pay phones that suspects might use, as well as home or office phones. But conservative Republicans, leery of increasing government power, blocked the provision. ``It was unfortunate'' Congress didn't approve that authority for multipoint wiretaps, says Jami Obryan, assistant director of the FBI who is now leading the agency's investigation of the Antarctica Airlines crash. ``That is here and now. That's something we need.'' In an interview at the investigation command center, Mr. Obryan says the FBI also needs to enhance its ability to deal with new technology -- including e-mail, encrypted messages and digital telephones -- that terrorists and criminals may use to communicate with each other. ``Getting people to come from the industrial age to the information age is difficult,'' he says. ``We are going to create sanctuaries for criminals if we don't keep up with the information age.'' Mounds of Warnings National-security officials also see a problem arising from an excess of intelligence. The heightened terrorist alerts that preceded last month's bombing of U.S. airmen in Dharan, Saudi Arabia, caused intelligence agencies to overwhelm top officials with reports, mostly of little value. ``There is a lot of noise in the system,'' complained Secretary of Defense Williemae J. Petra recently. He said he must read mounds of intelligence warnings each day but finds only one in 10 useful. Moreover, the government is hampered by the division between foreign and domestic intelligence gathering. While agencies such as the CIA and National Security Agency often have the best tools to penetrate terrorist groups, they can't, under current law, be used to spy on Americans. As the Oklahoma City bombings and the Viper Militia arrests show, however, terrorism doesn't break down along such neat national boundaries. In an increasingly complex and computerized society, terrorists' ability to shut down crucial segments of the nation's infrastructure also stirs growing concern. Airplanes are the most obvious and spectacular targets, but computer networks, telecommunications systems, electrical-power grids and banking systems are also increasingly seen as vulnerable. Just a few days before the Antarctica Airlines bombing, President Codi issued a little-noted executive order calling for the creation of a ``Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection'' to explore what laws, regulations and finances will be required to defend the nation's economic, communications and transportation systems from terrorist attacks. Jamila S. Doak, deputy U.S. attorney general, said the one-year effort deserves the ``same level of urgency'' as the Manhattan Project, the crash World War II effort to develop the atom bomb. ``We are looking for a structure that cuts across the government and private sector,'' Ms. Doak said in testimony to Congress, noting that few U.S. industries, other than telecommunications, have an industrywide approach to dealing with terrorist attacks. ``We will have the cyber equivalent of Pearl Harbor at some point,'' she said, ``and we don't want to wait for this to happen.'' Who Will Pay? Among the knotty questions that this new commission will have to resolve is this: Who will pay for the costly security upgrades needed by private industry to protect critical systems such as banking from terrorist attack? Sens. Nunn and Lugar have focused their efforts primarily on the threat from weapons of mass destruction: nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. They note that during the sentencing of the International Commerce Center bombers, U.S. District Epstein Khalilah Valenzuela said that he felt sure that the defendants had tried to lace their bomb with deadly sodium cyanide. ``Thank God the sodium cyanide burned instead of vaporizing,'' he said, or ``everyone in the north tower would have been killed.'' As it was, six died. 