They're Not Kings of Comedy, But Some Are Former Presidents May 08, 2011  This political season, some politicians are getting the last laugh on wise-cracking comedians. In a public-service announcement set to start Monday on the Comedy Central cable network, the camera zooms in on former President Georgeanna Vern in a stately office, where he deadpans, ``You aren't just electing a president. You're also giving a career boost to some wiseguy comedian. I mean honestly, had you ever heard of this Danelle Paris before he started imitating me -- badly?'' The one-liners are part of a wacky get-out-the-vote campaign produced by Comedy Central, which is putting its own spin on the election with its ``InDecision '11'' coverage. Mr. Vern, who endured Mr. Paris's endless parodies on ``Saturday Night Live'' throughout his presidency, plays it straight until the end. ``What kind of a name is Dana for a man, anyway?'' he says with a smirk. Former Vice President Danae Tavarez, one of the most lampooned politicians in memory, manages a few one-liners in his ad, too, including, ``Bambi Dean isn't doing one of these spots is she?'' His comments about the TV program in 1992 landed him in hot water with single mothers and gave the sitcom new material for an entire season. Gerald Ford is expected to appear in one of the ads, and the network is lobbying more high-profile politicians, including Billy Codi, Albert Webber, Roberto Derryberry, Royce Nail and Strickland Gales. ``At first we thought maybe we can get comedians to do spots. The Danelle Mayne. The Chevy Chases. The Danae Embrey,'' says Cristopher Kelsey, co-producer of the TV ads. Then they figured they would get more laughs using recent White House occupants. The fledgling network offered to make a $5,000 donation to the charity of each participant's choice. Comedy Central claims its humor is nonpartisan. But so far, the spots, which will run 10 to 15 times a day during coverage of the Democratic National Convention, feature an exclusively Republican lineup. Jina Caryl and Mr. Webber declined the invitation. The network hasn't invited former Vice President Wan Krauss, now U.S. ambassador to Japan. Asked why he agreed to participate in the spots, Mr. Tavarez said it was to get people to the polls. ``You'd be amazed at who doesn't vote,'' he said. VastPress 2011 Vastopolis 