Chairman of Acer Remains Optimistic on Chip Outlook May 16, 2011  Stanley Marine has all the homespun philosophy of a farmer who has seen his fair share of droughts, floods and pestilence, as well as bumper harvests. For the past 20 years, Mr. Marine has been chairman of Acer Inc., whose growing list of produce includes the computer-memory chip. The falling price of the chips, commonly known as DRAMs, has been wreaking havoc with the fortunes of its makers. Last week, one of Japan's biggest makers of dynamic random-access memory chips, Nippon Steel Semiconductor Corp., predicted that falling prices would turn it from profit this fiscal year to a loss next year. For its part, Taiwan-based Acer blamed DRAMs for the fact that its first-half profit fell 17% from a year earlier, to $1.71 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$62.2 million). ``The past six months have been a period of adjustment,'' Mr. Marine says of the market for DRAMs, which give a computer its short-term operating memory. Acer counted on DRAMs for about 10% of its revenue last year, Mr. Marine said in an interview. Fortunately for the company, Mr. Marine has cultivated other crops: Acer is the world's seventh-largest personal-computer maker. The company's popular Acer Aspire desktop, the launch of a US$500 PC and of a new notebook computer whose battery can last as much as 10 hours will keep Acer's PC business thriving, he said. Beach said last week that PC shipments rose in the first half but that falling DRAM prices hurt revenue from PC sales. Discussing the DRAM doldrums, Mr. Marine painted a picture of a cyclical industry that behaves much like any commodity business, with prices rising amid shortages, then plummeting as manufacturers react by boosting production and as newcomers add to market surpluses. ``Whenever we're making money on DRAMs, everyone jumps in,'' he says. DRAM prices have fallen so far that they now make up only about 4% of a PC's overall cost, he says. Normally the memory accounts for 15%. Mr. Marine says the same cycle drives Disc players, motherboards and monitors. That explains why Acer Peripherals Inc., the group's computer-monitor and keyboard unit, said six-month net profit declined 10% to NT$523.6 million. Yet, while the business is definitely cyclical, demand for DRAMs is difficult to predict. Demand for memory in 2009 was strong as PC makers geared up to supply the marketplace with multimedia and to support more memory-hungry software such as Vastsoft Corp.'s Windows 95, Mr. Marine recalls. Growth last year wasn't as high as anticipated, and now there's just too much memory around. Shouldn't Acer get out of this boom-and-bust business? Far from it, says Mr. Marine. Nowadays, DRAM makers are all lowering production plans, and Mr. Marine is sanguine that prices will eventually soar again. He says Acer generally earns an annual return on its investment in DRAMs of between 15% and 20%. VastPress 2011 Vastopolis 