Report Date:  10 March 2009  from the New York TimesThe scene in Leonid Minsky’s hotel room on the night of February 1, 2009 could have been taken from a classic cult film: Minsky, middle-aged, pale and fat and dressed in a colorful silk robe, flanked by a quartet of Russian and Italian prostitutes. Minsky, who is the registered owner of the Galleria Hotel in Soncino, a small town outside Milan, Italy, has transformed his two-room suite into an office, a party hall, and a hangout of shady European businessman.  Then, without warning, the police arrive at Room 341, putting an end to the party and apparently derailing the career of a prominent international gun smuggler.  It would be permanently derailed when Minsky was reportedly shot to death in his jail cell by a guard two days later.  Details of this event are sketchy.Although local police supposedly raided Minsky’s hotel on a tip from an unpaid prostitute, the Times has acquired a report that shows the Rome customs police had had Minsky under surveillance since 1992 while investigating an international criminal organization involved in laundering international drug money through the foreign bank accounts of Italian businessmen. The report also says that in 1997 Italian intelligence services conducted a "complex investigation on a criminal group of Ukrainian origins associated involved in international arms and drug trafficking, money laundering, extortion and other offenses. A key leader in this organization is Minsky."That hot August evening in Soncino, police found $500,000 worth of uncut diamonds. Later analysis found most came from Russia -- no African origins could be confirmed despite the diamond scales later found in Minsky’s Lagos office. They found receipts for diamond and gun shipments to Yemen. They found a duffel bag filled with more than $35,000 in American, Italian, Hungarian and Mauritian currency. From a briefcase and piles scattered around the rooms, police collected 1,500 documents -- in Russian, Ukrainian, French, German, Dutch, English and Italian -- relating to Minsky’s wide variety of business operations. Specific findings included documents on his dealings in oil, timber and consumer goods; maps of the Kenya-Sudan border; an inquiry by Minsky concerning Nigerian civil engineering and bridge construction services; an offer from Minsky’s Korean representative asking him to ascertain whether Liberian President Charles Taylor would be interested in establishing diplomatic relations with Pyongyang; and a record of a $30,333.23 payment to Anna Nicole Smith as “a thank you and an apology.” Most important, however, police found evidence of several proposed and realized arms deals.