REPORT DATE:  29 February 2008 [News report from the International Tribune]:February 27, 2008KarachiTerrorist Planning Attacks Nabbed by CIDThe personnel of Criminal Investigation Unit (CID) Sindh claim to have busted a network of terrorists belonging to the banned militant outfit, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, who had planned to bomb the Nishter Park gathering on Rabiul Awwal 12. The CID also recovered arms, C-4 explosives, detonators, and other items from the held terrorists.The SSP said that the police had expanded their intelligence networks across the city, given the security situation in the wake of the increased American offensive. He said that as part of this exercise, information was received from a spy that terrorists belonging to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi were present in the Old City area, and had plans to carry out another terrorists act on a forthcoming day of religious significance. Following up on this information, Khan along with his team raided a house on G Allana Road, and after an encounter, arrested Abdul Rana ul Baqi alias Majid, Ismail and Yousuf. The house where they gathered belonged to Abdul Rana ul Baqi, while Yousuf was a resident of Shah Faisal Colony, and Ismail lived in Malir. Three TT pistols, C-4 explosives, potassium nitrate, mortar rockets, wires, detonators and other equipments used for making bombs were recovered during search, Khan said. The suspects were subsequently taking to the Investigation Unit, where during probe, it was found that the accused belonged to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. The held terrorists claimed that they belonged to the Qari Hussain group, and had gathered at the house to attempt an attack at Nishter Park on the Rabiul Awwal 12 congregation. Abdul Rana ul Baqi alias Majid told investigators that their Ameer in Karachi was Chhota Hasan. He said that some weeks ago, they (the 3 held activists) and other activists were called at their hideout in Malir by Ameer Hasan.They started gathering explosive materials and other items, and waited for further directions. During this period, they were told that they would use motorcycles in the blast, and they would enter the procession by wearing green turbans so as to avoid any suspicion. As per the plan, the suspects were to reach near Nishter Park, park the motorcycles there, and after moving to a prescribed range, press the remote control to set off the bomb. The accused revealed that they had even purchased the turbans and were fully prepared for the attack, but unfortunately, the CID was tipped and they were arrested.