Report Date:  4 July 2008  from The National, Abu Dhabi MediaSANA’A // al-Hamdi Amant, a flagstones worker, respects the jambiya, a curved ceremonial blade common among Yemeni men.  “Once my children come of age, I will buy them a jambiya and a gun. It is part of our heritage and tradition. It is as my father did for me, and his father did for him.  I do not fear them as do some,” Mr Amant said.  But with 35 people having died in June this year because of the misuse of firearms and with more than 2,000 people losing their lives yearly in gun-related disputes, Yemeni officials are voicing their concerns about the easy access to weapons.Earlier this year, representatives urged parliament to pass a law proposed by the government several years ago to criminalise unlicensed weapons and carrying arms in public.  In both 2005 and 2007, bills seeking arms control and licensing authority were soundly rejected by both the controlling and opposition parties in the parliament. The most important markets are Suq al Talh in Sa’ada province, which has been a battlefield for a sporadic conflict between the al Houthi rebels and the government since 2004.  Government officials blame the notorious gun dealer Saleh Ahmed, for supplying the rebels, as well as operating gun exports to neighboring country of Saudi Arabia.  Ahmed was part of an arms deal gone bad several weeks ago in Saudi, and may be looking to increase his business dealings in his home country.Prior to the most recent campaign, the government started in 2005 a buy back programme, supported by the United States, of heavy weapons from tribesmen, which included rocket propelled grenades, anti-aircraft missiles and hand grenades.However, the current security situation in parts of the country have many Yemenis, such as Mohammed Mohammed, a 27-year-old teacher, compelled to buy a gun for personal protection.“I dislike firearms.  I wish they were not part of my culture.  My friends encouraged me to possess a gun for my safety and the safety of my family.  I resisted strongly for many years. However, at last I bought a Kalashnikov gun eight months ago.“Security problems are on the rise and I can hear the gunfire over land disputes even in the capital and the government is not able to stop them.“I realised that everyone should possess a gun for self-defence.” 