REPORT DATE:    9 October 2008 [provided to CIA by Pakistani Criminal Investigation Unit, Karachi Division]NOTE:  Surveillance report on the activities of Maulana Haq Bukhari, suspected to be a top leader within the Karachi faction of Lashkar-e-Jhangvi.  Bukhari is frequently accompanied by Akram Basra, who acts as a driver and bodyguard.  Additional information provided by police informants.23 July 2008 – A delivery was made to a house in Lyari Town (a constituent town of Karachi) in a house believed to be used by Bukhari.  The delivery was made by a two men in street clothing (as opposed to a uniform) who arrived in a white van, license LHR 6354, with single blue stripe on each side.  The delivery consisted of three medium boxes (requiring two hands to move) and a small box (handsized). The boxes appeared to be heavy.  One large box was square, the other rectangular.   The small box was rectangular.   It is unknown if Bukhari was home at the time of the delivery.8 August 2008 – An unknown man visited the Lyari Town house where Bukhari is believed to stay.  He arrived at 1615, and was let into the house immediately.  Loud voices could be heard for a few moments, then they subsided.  About fifteen minutes later a silver Mercedes left the rear of the house with what appeared to be three occupants.  Due to the tinted glass it was impossible to identify the occupants of the vehicle.  The house was surveilled for the next five hours; however no one came or went.16 September 2008 – Bukhari was followed from his Lyari Town house to an apartment about 1.5 kilometers southeast.  He entered the building and stayed there for about two hours.  When he left he returned to his Lyari Town house at which time the observer believed he’d been discovered and left the area.23 September 2008 – Bukhari and probably Basra are reported to have visited a house in the Katchi Abadis Old Settlement, on 835T Longhi Street.  The informant, a vendor with business in the area, was passing by and noticed Bukhari and one other person enter the building at about 1430.  The informant knew Bukhari by sight, but had never met him.